README.md, before:

## UH-60M Flight Replay Dashboard

This project replays a UH-60M flight with synchronized instruments, charts, a timeline, transcripts, and a live map. Playback is synchronized to the time fields in `Data.csv` (Local Hour, Local Minute, Local Second).

### Features
- Gauges: TAS, Radio Altimeter, Vertical Speed, Engine Torques (1 & 2)
- Time-synced charts with selectable axes and smoothing
- Transcript list and contextual event highlights
- Interactive timeline with playback controls and markers
- Map with georeferenced flight path from `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml`

### Data mapping
- Local time: `Local Hour`, `Local Minute`, `Local Second`
- TAS: `TAS`
- Radio Altimeter: `Altitude Radar` (used exclusively for ALT; clamped to 0 if invalid)
- Vertical Speed: `Vertical Speed`
- Ground Speed: `Ground Speed`
- Engine Torques: `Eng 1 Torque`, `Eng 2 Torque`

### Requirements
- Modern browser (Chrome/Edge/Firefox/Safari)
- Optional internet for CDNs (D3, Leaflet). If offline, use the simple static server instructions below; the app has a CSV parsing fallback built-in.

### Run locally
1. Start a static server from the project root:
   - Python 3: `python3 -m http.server 8000 --directory /workspace`
   - Node: `npx http-server -p 8000 /workspace --silent`
2. Open `http://localhost:8000/dashboard.html` in your browser.

### Usage
- Press Play (▶) to start/stop playback; Spacebar toggles play/pause.
- Drag the time slider or click the chart area to seek.
- Use Left/Right arrows to step 1s; hold Shift for 10s.
- Change playback speed with the Speed selector.
- Choose chart left/right metrics and adjust smoothing as desired.

### Files
- `dashboard.html` — UI layout and external libs.
- `dashboard.css` — dark theme and layout styles.
- `dashboard.js` — instruments, playback, charts, transcript, and map logic.
- `Data.csv` — time series measurements and transcripts.
- `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml` — flight path coordinates for map polyline.
- `Línea de tiempo.md` — timeline events used for markers and highlights (optional).

### Notes on instruments
- ALT gauge reads the radio altimeter (`Altitude Radar`) only. If the value is missing or negative, ALT displays 0.
- TAS gauge is knots from `TAS`.
- Charts and live stats mirror the same fields as the gauges.

### Troubleshooting
- Blank page or controls don’t respond:
  - Load via `http://` using a local server (not `file://`).
  - Check the browser console for errors loading `Data.csv` or `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml`.
- CSV parsing issues offline:
  - The app includes a fallback CSV parser; ensure `Data.csv` is in the same directory as `dashboard.html`.
- Map not showing:
  - Requires Leaflet CDN; ensure internet connectivity or replace the CDN URLs with local copies.

### License
This repository includes third-party components under their respective licenses:
- g3 gauges (`g3-master/dist/*`)
- D3 and Leaflet via CDN

Commit message:

Update README with detailed local server setup and troubleshooting steps
Co-authored-by: dlmalpica <dlmalpica@me.com>

README.md, after:

## UH-60M Flight Replay Dashboard

This project replays a UH-60M flight with synchronized instruments, charts, a timeline, transcripts, and a live map. Playback is synchronized to the time fields in `Data.csv` (Local Hour, Local Minute, Local Second).

### Features
- Gauges: TAS, Radio Altimeter, Vertical Speed, Engine Torques (1 & 2)
- Time-synced charts with selectable axes and smoothing
- Transcript list and contextual event highlights
- Interactive timeline with playback controls and markers
- Map with georeferenced flight path from `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml`

### Data mapping
- Local time: `Local Hour`, `Local Minute`, `Local Second`
- TAS: `TAS`
- Radio Altimeter: `Altitude Radar` (used exclusively for ALT; clamped to 0 if invalid)
- Vertical Speed: `Vertical Speed`
- Ground Speed: `Ground Speed`
- Engine Torques: `Eng 1 Torque`, `Eng 2 Torque`

### Requirements
- Modern browser (Chrome/Edge/Firefox/Safari)
- Required data files next to `dashboard.html`: `Data.csv` and `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml`
- One of the following installed and on your PATH (environment must be ready before running):
  - Python 3.9+ (recommended for the simplest built-in HTTP server)
  - Node.js 18+ and npm 9+
- Internet access if using CDN assets (D3, Leaflet) and online map tiles. If offline, see the notes below for using a local static server and local copies of CDN assets; the app includes a CSV parsing fallback when PapaParse is unavailable.

### Quick start (CLI server)
1. Open a terminal and change to the repository root (this folder).
2. Verify your environment is ready:
   - Python: `python3 --version` (or on Windows PowerShell: `py -3 --version`)
   - Node/npm (optional): `node -v && npm -v`
3. Start a local HTTP server from the project root (pick ONE option):
   - Python (Linux/macOS): `python3 -m http.server 8000 --directory .`
   - Python (Windows PowerShell): `py -3 -m http.server 8000 --directory .`
   - Node via npx: `npx http-server -p 8000 . --silent`
     - If `npx` is blocked or unavailable: `npm i -g http-server` then `http-server -p 8000 . --silent`
4. In your browser, open: `http://localhost:8000/dashboard.html`
   - Ensure `Data.csv` and `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml` are located beside `dashboard.html` (repo root by default).

### Usage
- Press Play (▶) to start/stop playback; Spacebar toggles play/pause.
- Drag the time slider or click the chart area to seek.
- Use Left/Right arrows to step 1s; hold Shift for 10s.
- Change playback speed with the Speed selector.
- Choose chart left/right metrics and adjust smoothing as desired.

### Files
- `dashboard.html` — UI layout and external libs.
- `dashboard.css` — dark theme and layout styles.
- `dashboard.js` — instruments, playback, charts, transcript, and map logic.
- `Data.csv` — time series measurements and transcripts.
- `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml` — flight path coordinates for map polyline.
- `Línea de tiempo.md` — timeline events used for markers and highlights (optional).

### Notes on instruments
- ALT gauge reads the radio altimeter (`Altitude Radar`) only. If the value is missing or negative, ALT displays 0.
- TAS gauge is knots from `TAS`.
- Charts and live stats mirror the same fields as the gauges.

### Troubleshooting
- Server won’t start or port busy:
  - Choose another port, e.g., `python3 -m http.server 8080 --directory .` then open `http://localhost:8080/dashboard.html`.
- `python3` not found on Windows:
  - Use `py -3 -m http.server 8000 --directory .` instead.
- `npx` prompts or is blocked by policy:
  - Install once globally: `npm i -g http-server` and run `http-server -p 8000 . --silent`, or use Python’s built-in server.
- Blank page or controls don’t respond:
  - Load via `http://` using a local server (not `file://`).
  - Check the browser console for errors loading `Data.csv` or `MOJO69 Flight Path.kml`.
- CSV parsing issues offline:
  - The app includes a fallback CSV parser; ensure `Data.csv` is in the same directory as `dashboard.html`.
- Map not showing:
  - Requires Leaflet CDN; ensure internet connectivity or replace the CDN URLs with local copies.

### License
This repository includes third-party components under their respective licenses:
- g3 gauges (`g3-master/dist/*`)
- D3 and Leaflet via CDN
